README.md, before:

# AWS S3 Batch Operations launched Restore Status Check

Github Repo: https://github.com/jwnichols3/s3-batch-ops-restore-status-check

Why do you need this? 

S3 Batch Operations Restore Job -> issues a set of Glacier async restore commands for a manifest (usually based on an Inventory).

When the Restore Job finishes, the Glacier restore process can take 24-48 hours.

When the Glacier restore process completes, the objects in S3 are still listed as in "GLACIER" or "GLACIER DEEP ARCHIVE"

You can navigate to the Console and check the "Restore progress" field and the "Expiry Date" field to see how long the file will be available.

This is a way to programaticaly retrieve the restore status and expiry date for all objects in a manifest. 

There are two logfiles produced:
* `restore-check-BATCHNAME-YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH-detail.log`
* `restore-check-BATCHNAME-YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH-summary.log`
  
`BATCHNAME` is the value entered on the command line.
`YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH` is the year, month, day and EPOCH time of the batch job. This makes the log filenamnes readable and unique.
## Requirements

* AWS SDK installed (boto3)
* Python3 with modules: argparse, csv, unquote, time
* Profile setup or running using a Role with access to the buckets/objects in question
* Inventory file with at least two values per line:
  * first column: bucket name
  * second collumn: key name
  * [Example CSV File](inventory-example.csv)

## Arguments

* --inventory_file - this is the csv file with objects to check.
* --batchname - a friendly name for the inventory name (restore jobs are often run in batches)
* --show - a flag to show the list of objects to the console as they are run.

## Behavior

This script will make an `s3 client head_object` call for each line in the CSV file.

If the object is in Glacier, there is a value in ['ResponseMetadata']['HTTPHeaders']['x-amz-restore']

This value is a single line that looks like `ongoing-request="false", expiry-date="Fri, 26 Feb 2021 00:00:00 GMT"`

* `ongoing-request` is set to "true" if the restore from Glacier is still happening
## Example
```
python restore-check.py --inventory_file inventory-test-100.csv --batchname batch01 --show
```

Commit message:

Add last-test.py Update README with new options

README.md, after:

# AWS S3 Batch Operations launched Restore Status Check

Github Repo: https://github.com/jwnichols3/s3-batch-ops-restore-status-check

Why do you need this? 

S3 Batch Operations Restore Job -> issues a set of Glacier async restore commands for a manifest (usually based on an Inventory).

When the Restore Job finishes, the Glacier restore process can take 24-48 hours.

When the Glacier restore process completes, the objects in S3 are still listed as in "GLACIER" or "GLACIER DEEP ARCHIVE"

You can navigate to the Console and check the "Restore progress" field and the "Expiry Date" field to see how long the file will be available.

This is a way to programaticaly retrieve the restore status and expiry date for all objects in a manifest. 

There are two logfiles produced:
* `restore-check-BATCHNAME-YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH-detail.log`
* `restore-check-BATCHNAME-YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH-summary.log`
  
`BATCHNAME` is the value entered on the command line.

`YYYY-MM-DD-EPOCH` is the year, month, day and EPOCH time of the batch job. This makes the log filenamnes readable and unique.
## Requirements

* AWS SDK installed (boto3)
* Python3 with modules: argparse, csv, unquote, time
* Profile setup or running using a Role with access to the buckets/objects in question
* Inventory file with at least two values per line:
  * first column: bucket name
  * second collumn: key name
  * [Example CSV File](inventory-example.csv)

## Arguments

* `--inventory_file` - this is the csv file with objects to check.
* `--batchname` - a friendly name for the inventory name (restore jobs are often run in batches)
* `--show` - a flag to show the list of objects to the console as they are run.

## Behavior

This script will make an `s3 client head_object` call for each line in the CSV file.

If the object is in Glacier, there is a value in ['ResponseMetadata']['HTTPHeaders']['x-amz-restore']

This value is a single line that looks like `ongoing-request="false", expiry-date="Fri, 26 Feb 2021 00:00:00 GMT"`

* `ongoing-request` is set to "true" if the restore from Glacier is still happening
## Example

### Batch01 showing each object
This example assumes you have the `restore-check.py` file and inventory file in the current directory.
```
python restore-check.py --inventory_file inventory-test-100.csv --batchname batch01 --show
```

This runs the inventory and doesn't show the inventory files as they are processed

```
python restore-check.py --inventory_file inventory-test-100.csv --batchname batch01
```

This checks the last 100 objects.

```
python restore-check.py --inventory_file inventory-test-100.csv --batchname batch01 --last 100
```
